---
layout: post
title:  "i4 Engineering Competition"
subtitle: The second tech-related event of the semester
date:   2016-11-21 23:34:01
categories: [design, tool]
---

When I first heard of the i4 Competition, I felt determined to become involved. This competition provides students with the opportunity to develop an engineering idea and pitch it to investors. As each round progresses, each team must be developing the product at that rate to obtain funding. I talked to my friend, Ryan, about forming a team with me for months. Then finally, a few weeks before the competition, Ryan revealed that we could join forces with his friend, Erik, who won money in the competition last year. The night before, Erik and I threw together a pitch, knowing that our only chance to practice would be at the actual event. The event integrated tech and the community because although we presented, we spent most of the time watching other students' presentation and conversing with the judges and other students. Although I cannot disclose some of the ideas that were pitched at this event, they ranged from apps to redesigning and optimizing existing medical tools. The content of these inventions were a blend of technology, science, and research. Many of these students had to go out into the community and shadow doctors or healthcare professionals to fully research their ideas and account for factors. My team ended up winning 2 grand for product development. Although we have yet to start designing, I made an important connection at this competition. 
These past few months I have been prototyping. I've reached a stage in prototyping where I need to start considering patent laws. One of the judges, a patent lawyer, agreed to meet with me for a free consultation and proceeded to offer me one of his services at an 83% discount. Obviously that was a crucial connection or else I would not be able to afford his services. The competition taught me about presenting infront of judges and overcoming anxiety.